# Project---Online-voting-system-using-facial-recognition 
<br>

#### ABSTRACT
<br>

Voter ID is an important document to have, as this allows us to voice our opinion and elect the candidates of our government. As important it is for people to possess a Voter ID, the proper verification for issuing the same and authenticating the user by providing them with an electoral card. These verification processes currently are done manually where in the possible voter fills in a form appropriately either online or offline and attaches the necessary documents along with it. These documents include address proof and identity proof etc. The attached documents are then verified and if any discrepancies are found the application is rejected or else if the details are proven to be satisfactory the Voter ID is issued. After the Voter ID is verified a few days before election day, the electoral are issued electoral cards/ slips which permits the voter to enter the booth allotted to them. These issued slips are verified by an election booth officer based on the details provided by the user as part of the application process. Along with these details, the user’s identity is verified based on the photo on the Voter ID that is issued to them. The major problem with the current voting verification system is the details that are provided can be counterfeited and can be gone unnoticed if proper verification steps are not taken. Another major problem of the present day is the votes being rigged. This problem arises due to the unethical means of confirmation regarding the voter’s physical aspects. <br>
To eliminate rigging, and automate the verification of the person’s identity accurately and efficiently, we make use of facial recognition to verify and legitimize the voter. The facial recognition is done on the input image that is given by the voter as part of the verification process to check the lineaments of the voter. Even though there might be changes in the appearance, the facial alignments of the voter will always be constant. As the facial recognition pinpoints and measures facial features from input the voter will not be able to rig the vote even if their appearance is altered. The project matches the input image with the face images available in the data, and checks for the vote attribute that indicates whether a person has voted or not. If the voter has not voted, the system changes the status of the voter to “voted” and permit the voter to vote, else if the voter seems to have voted previously and is trying to rig their vote, the voter is not allowed to vote.
